---
title: To Wrap-Up
module: 05
---

# Wrap-Up: <br /> HTML Pt. 2

### Covered Materials:

This week introduced three new topics within HTML:

1. Images
2. Tables
3. Forms

You will clearly use these techniques often when developing webpages, as they offer enormous benefits for content presentation and information collections.

#### Images

Images are pervasive throughout the Internet. As a Media Artist, you will undoubtedly think and express yourself through visual means, including still images. As such, you will need to develop a high level of comfort with image manipulation and inclusion with web development.


#### Tables

Tables allow us to present data in a relational way that brings new light and meaning to the data in question. The presentational ability of tables to show relationships between data is crucial in a "data driven world".


#### Forms

There were many elements introduced in the discussion of HTML forms. If it is not yet clear, however, these elements all share common traits and attributes. The number of elements may seem unnecessary, however, they offer the web developer and content creator an ability to be explicit in the type of content and data being collected. Increased readability is always a good thing as it reduces errors and improves the ability to collaborate.

Before you dig into JavaScript in the advanced Web course, practice with these elements and become comfortable with how you might group them together to create meaningful forms.


## Part 2/3 of Project 2
Continuing with your chosen theme of **cooking**, **arts and crafts**, or **academic lesson**, you're going to add image content, a table, and a form to your Project.

These pages should be properly linked to each other and your `index.html`!

### `instructions.html`
For this module, you should have created your `instructions.html` with a table, which will contain your how-to guide, directions, or lesson content. This might be:
  - The parts to a recipe.
  - A step-by-step guide or walkthrough.
  - A timeline or linear list of informative points.
  - Etc.

### `form.html`
In addition, you should have created a second page containing a form. What you include in this form is up to you, other than a required **Submit** element. This might be:
  - Fake submission area for a viewer's completed food / community blog.
  - Fake catalogue to buy parts or craft supplies / purchase form.
  - Quiz or assessment.
  - Etc.


### `readme.md`
Continue documenting your learning progress in your Project 2 Readme as you go along. For example, was it hard learning to work with tables and forms? What about images?


# Homework
You are expected to have completed these tasks:
1. Completed your `instructions.html` and `form.html` pages for Project 2, _The Instructable_, as per the requirements found on the previous page.
