---
title: To Wrap-Up
module: 09
---

# Wrap-Up: <br /> CSS Pt. 3

This Topic we covered a lot of new material, but all of this material together allows you to start creating engaging webpages.

Make sure you are comfortable with the "Box Model," along with the relevant parts of the box model, including;

- padding
- margin
- border

These properties of block level elements are critical in creating readable pages with appropriate space between portions of the content.

This Topic also presented the display and float properties, which can be used to create layouts with horizontal block level elements. This can be used to create headers and menu bars, as well as larger content containers like side bars.

Next Topic we will look, in detail, how to use these techniques as well as "flex flow" to design webpage layouts. While you are on the internet for other purposes this week, take the time to consider what site layouts you like and do not like. You should also change the width of your browser, to see how these sites change depending on the browser size.


## Part 3/3 of Project 3
Conclude Project 3 by creating a layout for your typographical work from HW-05, including boxes, asides or pull-quotes (like reviews or important text), and menu that is accessible across your site.

### `readme.md`
Continue documenting your learning progress in your Project 3 Readme as you go along.


# Homework
You are expected to have completed these tasks:
1. HW-06: Created a cohesive layout across your pages for Project 3, _The Literature Showcase_, as per the requirements found on the previous page.
2. Submitted a link to your (1) `/project-3` repo and (2) live site (home page) to the Moodle Workshop.
