---
title: To Wrap-Up
module: 04
---

# Wrap-Up: <br /> HTML Pt. 1

### Covered Materials:

We covered a lot this week, including how to structure and style major HTML elements. Great job!

#### Structural Markup
You should have a pretty good idea about _what_ goes _where_ when writng HTML. This includes:

- The Head Element (Meta, Title, Style, etc)
- The Body Element (Headings, Paragraphs)
- Proper Code-Writing Practices

#### Semantic Markup
You should also be a wizard at semantic tags, and how they're used within Body elements. This includes:

- **Strong** and _emphasized_ text
- <sup>Super</sup>Script, <q>Quotes</q>, <cite>Citations</cite>, etc
- Lists

## Part 1/3 of Project 2
We will be making several pages for Project 2, _The Instructable_, beginning with its `index.html`. Chosing from the themes **cooking**, **arts and crafts**, or **academic lesson**, think of a linear activity you could create a tutorial for, like:
  - Chocolate-chip Cookies Recipe
  - How to Draw Flowers
  - A Timeline of Renaissance Art

This project will need related text, images, and video content, so you may want to keep that in mind when brainstorming.

### `index.html`
For this module, you should have created your `index.html`, which will contain your overview and project summary.

#### Plan the Plan
Using the proper elements, your index should explain your site's upcoming cotents with:
- Proper head and meta elements.
- Headings, paragraphs, line-breaks, and horizontal lines.
- All semantic markup tags.
- A quote (with author) from the field you're using. This can be from you, or a professional source.
- A nested list using both ordered and unordered list items. Some examples would be ingredients, materials, or other references.


### `readme.md`
Just like for the last Project, you are expected to write a well-formed `readme.md` file that is a technical report about your work this week. Remember to use markdown syntax to style and add structure to your document. _You do not have to use any specific markdown elements anymore, but you should if the situation calls for it!_

**Think of your `README.md` files as journal entries.** These files should include information about what it is you did and learned this week, such as  information about trials/triumphs, additional sources your sought out, and/or how this week will change your work going forward. For example, what are your ideas for this Project?

This file is to be placed inside your `/project-2` directory. You should update it continually through this project cycle.


# Homework
You are expected to have completed these tasks:
1. Taken the Quiz regarding this Topic's reading requirements.
2. Completed the `index.html` for Project 2, _The Instructable_, as per the requirements found on its [Project Board](https://github.com/Media-Ed-Online/intro-web-dev/projects/6) and its Moodle assignment requirements.
3. Assessed your classmate's "Project 1" sites via Moodle Peer Review.
