---
title: To Wrap-Up
module: 07
---

<style>

.content-crazy {
    background-color: rgb(246, 41, 238);
    font-family: cursive;
    color: rgb(216, 244, 44);
    padding: 15px;
}
.content-crazy>p {
    font-size: 2em;
}

.content-crazy>h1 {
    background-color: rgb(0, 255, 224);
    color: rgb(255, 125, 125);
    padding: 20px;
    font-size: 7em;
    font-weight: bold;
    text-shadow: rgb(0, 39, 106);

}

.content-crazy>h1:hover {
    background-color: rgb(69, 222, 7);
    color: rgb(0, 255, 255);
    padding: 30px;
    font-size: 1em;
}

.content-crazy>p:hover {
    background-color: rgb(41, 197, 246);
    font-family: monospace;
    color: rgb(244, 44, 44);
    padding: 30px;
}

#note {
    background-color: black;
    color: rgb(76, 255, 60);
    font-family: fantasy;
}

#note:hover {
    background-color: black;
    color: rgb(60, 91, 255);
    font-family: monospace;
}

</style>

<div class="content-crazy">
  <h1> Wrap-Up: <br /> CSS Pt. 1</h1>

  <p>A large amount of material was covered this week with the introduction to CSS. Remember to take it slow, give yourself plenty of time, and to be patient with yourself as you start to learn this new technology.</p>

  <p>Next week, we will look at more properties that are capable of being styled via CSS.</p>

  <p id="note" class><b>NOTE:</b> This is poor web design color choices. BUT, all of the ridiculousness that is this page was done with CSS. Just a taste of the possibilities to come (although we will move through the 90's rather quickly.....)</p>
</div>


## Part 1/3 of Project 3
We will be making several pages for Project 3, _The Literature Showcase_. Chosing from the types of content, either a **blog**, **article**, or **book, short story, essay, or poem**, source a written piece of work you're interested in creating a site for (this could be one of your own pieces, if you'd like). You need to plan for:
  - A short introduction to the piece, with reviews (real or fake).
  - A sample of the written work.
  - An "about the author" section, with contact form.

This project will need related text and images. If you decide to use an outside piece like a famous poem or book, you may need to research some reviews and a short author's biography. Dust jackets, [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/books/), [Barns and Nobel](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/), and [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/blog/) are ususally very helpful for this.

### `readme.md`
Just like for the last Project, you are expected to write a well-formed `readme.md` file that is a technical report about your work. Along with what it is you did and learned this week, the P3 readme needs to include your ideas and images you plan on using for this site (such as the author's picture and your color palette).

This file is to be placed inside your `/project-3` directory. You should update it continually through this project cycle.


# Homework
You are expected to have completed these tasks:
1. Started your ideation for Project 3, and added these thoughts to your `readme.md` as stated on the previous "Pseudo-Homework" page. You will be reviewed for these requirements next week with HW-05.
2. Assessed your classmate's "Project 2" sites via Moodle Peer Review.
